.\" Copyright 1991, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: groupadd.8,v 1.5 2000/08/26 18:27:17 marekm Exp $
.\"
.TH GROUPADD 8
.SH NAME
groupadd \- Create a new group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B groupadd
[\fB-g\fI gid \fR[\fB-o\fR]] [\fB-r\fR] [\fB-f\fR]
.I group
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBgroupadd\fR command
creates a new group account using the values specified on the
command line and the default values from the system.
The new group will be entered into the system files as needed.
The options which apply to the \fBgroupadd\fR command are
.IP "\fB-g \fIgid\fR"
The numerical value of the group's ID.
This value must be unique, unless the \fB-o\fR option is used.
The value must be non-negative.
The default is to use the smallest ID value greater than 500 and
greater than every other group.
Values between 0 and 499 are typically reserved for \fIsystem accounts\fR.
.IP \fB-r\fR
This flag instructs \fBgroupadd\fR to add a \fIsystem
account\fR. First available \fIgid\fR lower than 499 will be
automatically selected unless \fB-g\fR option is given also on the
command line.
.br
This is an option added by Red Hat Software.
.IP \fB-f\fR
This is \fIforce\fR flag. This will stop \fBgroupadd\fR exit with
error when the group about to be added already exists on the
system. If that is the case, the group won't be altered (or added
again, for that matter).
.br
This option also modifies the way \fB-g\fR option works. When you
request a \fIgid\fR that it is not unique and you don't give \fB-o\fR
option too, the group creation will fall back to the standard behavior
(adding a group as neither \fB-g\fR or \fB-o\fR options were
specified).
.br
This is an option added by Red Hat Software.
.SH FILES
/etc/group \- group account information
.br
/etc/gshadow \- secure group account information
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chfn (1),
.BR chsh (1),
.BR useradd (8),
.BR userdel (8),
.BR usermod (8),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR groupdel (8),
.BR groupmod (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Julianne Frances Haugh (jfh@austin.ibm.com)
